# Dostoievsky's The Idiot (20221125132220)

A novel extremely intricate in it's _Motives_, which is the
combined result of the _Act, Scene, Agent, Agency and Purpouse_[^1], as
postulated by Dramatism, by Kenneth Burke.

Each character has it's own **Purpouse**, and the ratio of their
Agent-Purpouse brings all their background forward. Even secondary
characters, like Gánia's henchman, have their strong **Purpouse**. Even
though, the fact of them being uneducated and truculent makes their
Purpouse shallow, as their ratio well fits.

Nastássia Filipovna, as her past serves as a recurring **Scene** for her
_Acts_, translates well her Motives. By feeling spiteful and regretful,
makes people feel spiteful and regretful, by turning the _status quo_ of
those she lives with and depend upon to become an intricate living hell.

She feels betrayed by how Tótski manipulated her life, into becoming
a "perfect" wife for himself, when he should have been a father-figure.
This, when realized by her, that her education, and "spoilment" was not
because he was seen as not a daughter-figure, but a wife-figure, makes
for her spitefulness.

And, as if she was trained in Dramatism, understands all this, not
through Tótski words. But, as is common in the book, and in life, she
come to akwnoledge her situation, by analyzing the non-verbal Action; the non-verbal relation of the Scene; and, the Purpouse that arrives from these elements. Finally, arriving at Tóstski's motives.

All these things are not said by the author itself. But, you must arrive
at these conclusions on your own, just to make sense of the history. Now,
factoring in that Act take places with at least four Agents, with all
this complexity, we can see why this book-read has been considered
extremelly hard to understand and predict. Therefore, a true masterpiece
of literature.

## References
- `? Dramatistic pentad`.
