# About Docker, Containers and Security

- isosec: 221105140059-03

## Jargon:

|--------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Name | Acronym | Meaning |
|--------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Control Groups | `cgroups` | Avoid that a program to use all available resources. |
| Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures | `CVEs` | Test standard ways to break the application/supply chain. |
|--------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------|

## QA Containers

- Why use `containers`?
  Containers provide a standardized way to ship applications, so they can run, as
  if it was a binary. So, indifferent of what language and frameworks were used,
  it's possible to ship everything, using the same mechanisms and tools.
  Also, it makes possible to monitor, control and protect the applications
  easily. Since, it use Linux's `namespaces` and `control groups (cgroups)`. This
  way, any tools for traditional `System Administration` can be extended to this
  infrastructure.
  It's also possible to take **precaution measures** against potential flaws and
  cyber-attacks, that are much simpler, when using containers.

## QA Security

- What are `CVEs` - Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures?
  CVEs subscribed by the `MITRE` corporation, funded by the US Division of
  Homeland Security. They label security vulnerabilities and exposures using
  SCAP (the Security Content Automation Protocol). Finally, they publish a
  glossary with the entries explaining what are the `security vunerabilities`
  and `exposures`.

  > The `CVE glossary` contains a list of entries, each including a unique ID number, public reference,
  > and description. Each `CVE` refers to a specific exposure or vulnerability, defined as follows:
  >
  > - A `security vulnerability`—an error in software code that provides threat actors with direct
  >   access to a network or system. Direct access enables actors to act as superusers or system
  >   administrators with full privileges.
  > - An `exposure`—a flaw that provides a threat actor with indirect access to a system or network.
  >   Indirect access enables actors to collect information.

  > The CVE project provides a system for identifying and managing exposures and vulnerabilities.
  > Here is how a CVE listing is created:
  >
  > - A developer, organization, or code author identifies an exposure or vulnerability.
  > - The CVE Numbering Authority (CNA) species the CVE ID number for the exposure or
  >   vulnerability.
  > - The CNA writes a brief description of the specific issue and includes references. The
  >   description
  > - The final CVE entry is added to the CVE glossary and posted on the CVE website.
  >
  > Note that CVE descriptions don’t include technical information, details about fixes, or data
  > about specific effects of the flaw. This information is offered by databases such as the US NVD
  > (National Vulnerability Database) and the CERT/CC Vulnerability Notes Database. The NVD provides
  > CVSS-Based scores, information on fixes, and other details required for mitigation.

- What is `MITM atack`? And, how containers can take measures to counter-act?

  > Another way to make our software supply chain more secure is to have our containers use
  > a `content trust`. A content trust basically ensures that the author of a container image is who
  > they pretend to be and that the consumer of the container image has a guarantee that the
  > image has not been tampered with in transit. The latter is known as a
  > `man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack`.
