---
title: "ChatGPT summarization chronics"
description: "Sapolsky's research showed that Baboons are capable of shifting their social hierarchy and living a more healthy life for all of the members of the 'tribe'"
published: "2024-01-19"
image: "images/image-post-104.png"
draft: false
---

# ChatGPT summarization chronics


## Sapolsky
```
<user>: Summarize this text in better common english, preserving the jargons
used:

"When his serendipitous research showed that Baboons are capable of shifting
their social hierarchy and living a more healthy life for all of the members of
the "tribe". And, they can propagate that behavior to their descendants and
other Baboon groups...

Well, that makes you think about how that hard-fact implies stuff to humans,
which are much more adaptable and flexible, from a behavioral standpoint.

Again, he wasn't looking for that on his research. He found that out, out of an
accident (serendipitous). That makes his findings even more compelling, since
there COULDN'T be any type of "ideological conflict" there.

So... say what you want about the man. He speaks what empirical data has show in
animals, and what does that imply for another particular specie, humans. That's
the standard practice, by the way, for all biological-standing fields, like the
pharmaceutical, medical practice, veterinarians etc. Don't forget
social-economic theories!

Once upon a time people believed in a theological view of social-economic
theory, a.k.a the "invisible hand of the markets" and that was totally
acceptable, given the status-quo belief - at the time - that human behavior was
a mirror from a divine entity etc.

Therefore, yeah, Sapolsky should have a lot of things to say about our
social-economic structures, since his research has far-reaching consequences
about "social-economic" structures in animal societies (e.g., Baboons etc). Just
like Adam Smith had a bunch to say about social-economic structures, given his
standpoint in religion.

There's the brazilian saying: "the stick that hurts Chico, also hurts
Francisco". If people accept theologians talking about social-economic
structures, why shouldn't they accept a scientist that devoted his life to
studying behavior to do the same?"

<assistant>: In his research, the scientist discovered that baboons have the
ability to change their social hierarchy and improve the overall well-being of
the group. They can also teach this behavior to future generations and other
baboon groups. This finding has implications for humans, who are even more
adaptable and flexible in terms of behavior.

Interestingly, the scientist stumbled upon this discovery accidentally, which
makes it even more compelling. There was no prior agenda or conflict involved.
This is a common practice in many biological fields, including pharmaceuticals,
medicine, and veterinary science, as well as social and economic theories.

In the past, people believed in a theological perspective of social and economic
structures, attributing human behavior to a divine force. However, the
scientist's research challenges this belief and suggests that animal societies,
like baboons, can provide insights into social and economic structures. Just as
Adam Smith offered insights from a religious standpoint, this scientist has a
lot to say about our social and economic systems based on his studies of animal
behavior.

In essence, the scientist's research highlights the interconnectedness of
different species and supports the idea that what affects one group, also
affects others. If theologians can talk about social and economic structures,
why can't a scientist who has dedicated their life to studying behavior do the
same?
```
